# Notes
**flex**

... is used to create a scanner with the purpose of scanning input, determine what type of tokens (if any) that input holds, and pass them onwards to a parser. The token matching, if you will, is achieved through regex matching the input. The current matched input is pointed to within the `yytext` variable. The entire scanner routine is called `yylex()`, which can be called from a main function, for example. To translate the program we run `flex my_program.l`, which creates the c program `lex.yy.c`, and compile the program using `cc lex.yy.c -lfl`, where the `-lfl` tells the compiler to link the program with the flex library. When running the program, everytime it needs a token, a call is made to `yylex()`, which will read the input text and return a token if one is matched against the regex pattern(s). The scanner acts as a coroutine, which means that each time it returns a token, it will remember where it was and pick up from that spot the next time `yylex()` is called. In the scanner, when a token is ready, it will simply return the token as the value from `yylex()`. The next time `yylex()` is called, it will resume scanning the next input characters. If an input doesn't match against the regex, no token will be produced and nothing will be returned, the scanner simply continue within the same call to `yylex()` scanning the next input.
I.e. *If a token is returned, scanning will resume on the next call to* `yylex()`. *If nothing is returned, scanning is immediately resumed*

**bison**

... is used to create a parser. A token returned from the scanner has two parts; the token and the token's value. The token is a small integer, where the token numbers (the token's identifier) are arbitrary. Except from that token 0 always means end-of-file. As bison creates the parser it assigns the tokens their numbers automatically starting at number 258 (to avoid collisions with literal character tokens), and creates a `.h` file containing the definitions of the token numbers. The token's value tells which out of a group of similar tokens this particular token is.
